hi everybody
Reba here I personally like to thank you
for opening your homes to a new family
member the Ranger bull mastiff puppies I
have decided to do a little video to
help you all develop and train your new
puppy for the show ring just want to
thank you for the wonderful homes you've
given them and the wonderful people you
all are and we are going to have fun in
the show ring so god bless you all and
let's go out there and have some fun
you
okay we're going to start with step one
you need to go to Walmart get yourself a
little cooler I make this a special
little bag so the puppy knows when it's
time to go to the show this is a special
bag in the bag you're going to have a
squeaky toy because some of them get
their ears up and alert when when they
hear that noise right okay then you're
going to need a show caller and there's
a place online KB vet supplies that
sells a show lead this is a hexagon lead
now this is a little too large for the
puppies right now but it's a a great
caller to have for the show ring and
this is what they call a lead which is
attached to the caller
and that's bought separately but kV vets
is a wonderful place to go and get that
you need a cloth in case you have a
little slobber going on as puppies you
don't need to worry too much as they get
older you may have to I usually carry a
man's handkerchief in my pocket is less
bulky and in this little bag you're
going to have a very special treat in
this case I have hot dog and it's going
to be a treat that you keep separate and
for no other time do you use this treat
until it's practice time for training so
they know this bag is special they know
they get a special treat when this bag
comes out and they know they have to
look good
they know they have to act differently
so that is what you need to consider for
your step one and getting yourself ready
for the show
okay we're at step two now after you get
your show lead from kV vets or a pet
supply that has show paraphernalia you
need to learn how to put it on correctly
so you take the lead part and drop it
into the circle so that when you fish it
through you have a backwards P and now
we'll go ahead and put the collar on
Cody so that you have the the part
that's facing you is the slide part so
it goes on his neck like this so that
when you pull it it tightens from from
the right side of the dog so when you're
getting ready to do the show keep in
mind that the judges wants a
well-behaved dog so getting him to focus
on you is really the big part of the
game right now so once you have the lead
on your puppy it goes up behind the ears
again this one's a little long but you
can keep it tight up around his ears and
as they get older they're going to have
the wrinkles here so you need to make
sure that this collar is brought out and
pulled back so that all the wrinkles on
the dog's neck is behind the collar okay
Cody come here okay
now the next step as you can see we have
some nice a nice treat we have a squeaky
he's very interested in that squeaky
stand Cody so sometimes you got to help
your puppy
that'll help your puppy a little bit you
get them to stand you get the collar up
behind his ears and he's focused on the
bait all right so the next thing you're
going to do put the bait in your pocket
put it in your mouth you have to focus
on his legs okay Cody cooperate going to
take a few times remember they are
puppies you have to be patient they're
learning okay
the part of the paw needs to face in so
you grab your puppy by the elbow and try
to put it right under his body by his
shoulder and his paws straight forward
and the same look together leaving a
little width between the two like so
good boy
now at this point in time you need to
focus on his front don't worry too much
about his back get them to hold still
get them to focus on your bait which
he's doing and his paws are perfectly
straight get him to look forward what
you want for the judge is the expression
the wrinkle a judge is going to come
along and look at her or her or his
teeth sometimes she will ask you to do
it so maybe a hot dog wasn't the best
thing to do first off he's just very
interested so as the judge is examining
your puppy you can hold the bait right
here keep him still and occupied while
she's going over his body so we're going
to get let him have a little piece right
now there we go
good boy Cody and I'm going to put it
right back in my pocket now he may not
cooperate because he knows I've got
something really good then you're going
to go down his backside you're going to
put your hand underneath and pull his
thigh back what you're looking for is to
have this parallel to the floor and
again they're puppies so it may take a
few times may take a lot of times for
him to be able to cooperate and stay
still now actually Cody's doing a very
good job right now so this is the look
you want once you've got him placed you
tell him to stay you can use different
words like stand stay now he's focused
when the judge comes walking by you have
him in a perfect look perfectly still
good boy and actually they learn very
quickly so feel free when you're in the
show ring to step in front of your dog
just as long as the judge is walking by
you want to get that expression having
those eyes shiny straight up having him
look at the bait and the judge is going
to be looking for the nose the wrinkle
where the ear set is and Cody is going
to be looking for the bait so there we
go
that a bit first step so remember paws
forward and he's doing a great job head
up
if you've got little girls little swayed
back or a little boy you give them a
poke under here make sure the legs are
back the hawk parallel to the floor and
there you go and the next thing we have
to work on is the teeth now if you have
to show the judge the teeth you go like
that and get them look sometimes they
will look themselves and you just have
to make sure the puppy's face is forward
so that is just about the end of step
two and you're on your way to a good
show puppy and a show experience